---
post_id: 281
title: big boned
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://wordpress.quietlife.net/?p=281
permalink: /2004/03/17/big-boned/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 2158498833
categories:
  - health
tags:
  - health
---
A [recent study][1] shows that a large percentage of parents with obese children don't even realize it:

> "A third of the mothers and 57 percent of dads actually saw their obese child as normal," said Alison Jeffery, a member of the research team at the medical school.
> 
> "Quite a few parents are not recognizing it as a problem. They are not recognizing the health risks either," she added in an interview.
> 
> But Jeffery said it isn't a case of denial.
> 
> "We are all used to seeing people who are bigger than they used to be 20 years ago and we just see people who are overweight as normal."
> 
> Jeffery, who presented her findings to the Diabetes UK medical conference in Birmingham, England, questioned 300 seven-year old children and their parents about their perceptions of body size.
> 
> One third of mothers and half of fathers who were either overweight or obese rated themselves as "about right."
> 
> When the child was a normal weight, according to an internationally recognized measurement of obesity in children, most of their parents, regardless of their own size, knew there was no problem.
> 
> When the child was overweight but not obese, only a quarter of the parents knew it. But when the youngsters were obese, 40 percent of parents were not concerned about their child's weight.

Talk about fighting an uphill battle.

 [1]: http://personal.news.yahoo.com/us/news/ratings/getavgrate.html?locale=us&prop=news&rateid=nm/20040317/diabetes_children_dc&type=T&cat=571&ncid=751