---
post_id: 369
title: storms
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://wordpress.quietlife.net/?p=369
permalink: /2004/07/14/storms/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 236777723
categories:
  - misc
tags:
  - misc
---
A <a href="http://quietlife.net/images/storms_cam.html" onclick="window.open('http://quietlife.net/images/storms_cam.html','popup','width=640,height=480,scrollbars=no,resizable=no,toolbar=no,directories=no,location=no,menubar=no,status=no,left=0,top=0'); return false">cool view</a> of <a href="http://quietlife.net/images/storms_radar.html" onclick="window.open('http://quietlife.net/images/storms_radar.html','popup','width=720,height=486,scrollbars=no,resizable=no,toolbar=no,directories=no,location=no,menubar=no,status=no,left=0,top=0'); return false">these storms</a> that blew through last night. The power went out while I was peeing, half-asleep, which I can assure you is a very bad time for everything to go black. With a surge of adrenalin like that, you never go back sleep.

Also, I find the local news coverage of bad weather hilarious. It's funny how the same elements of viewership-retention-by-fear even play into delivering the weather:  
<!--more-->

  
Bill: Stay with us for news channel whatever for continuing coverage of this severe weather, and now to Cynthia, who is on location.  
Cynthia: Thanks, Bill. I'm here at the corner of I-65 and Vietnam Veterans, where it's raining a little. You can still hear the thunder. And here I am, for some goddamn reason, standing here like some sort of retard in the rain. Back to you Bill.  
Bill: Thanks, Cynthia. Oh, this just in: there are some trees down in Ashland City. And now to the head of TEMA, who is on the phone:  
Head of TEMA: Well, it's storming pretty bad, but no fatalities yet.  
Bill: No fatalities?  
Head of TEMA: No.  
Bill: Thanks, head of TEMA, who tells us there are no fatalities, but he'll keep us abreast of any fatalities, so that you can know about the fatalities ... for some reason. Fatalities. Fatalities. Fatalities.  
Bill: And now to the Mayor of Cookeville.  
Mayor of Cookeville: It's raining really hard here, Bill. And it's windy. We have some trees down.  
Bill: Thanks Mayor. And now back to Cynthia:  
Cynthia: It was really rough driving here, Bill, due to all the fallen trees. I almost died. Now it's just raining a little.  
Bill: Thanks, Cynthia. Any fatalities?  
Cynthia: No fatalities, Bill.. yet.. Back to you!  
Bill: Thanks, Cynthia. This is new: a report of a grill that was blown onto a boy in Smyrna. Any grills out there, Cynthia?  
Cynthia: No, just a light rain, Bill.  
Bill: Thanks, Cynthia. Now lets take a look at the Super Mega 3d Weathertron that looks really cool but is useless to you because I don't zoom in on any one part of the map for more than 10 milliseconds.  
Bill: Okay, now to Steve for some tips on how to survive a tornado, which we haven't seen yet. But if we did, they could be very dangerous. Tornadoes, for which they haven't even issued a watch yet, are extremely volatile and can result in fatalities, and those can **kill you**! Steve?  
Steve: Get in the basement. Bring beer.  
Bill: Thanks, Steve. We now have some live footage. This is from 5 minutes ago in Franklin:  
\*footage of a tree blowing around\*  
Bill: It's really wild out there. Any fatalities or grills yet, Cynthia?  
Cynthia: Not yet, Bill. It's pretty much just raining out here.

and so on.