---
post_id: 650
title: turban?
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://chris.quietlife.net/?p=650
permalink: /2005/06/22/turban/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 236778318
categories:
  - misc
tags:
  - misc
---
I am going to start making no posts other than recycled [from comments I made on Nashville is Talking][1]:

> One of the more humorous side-effects of this whole Durbin thing is how many people have allowed us a nice window into their subconscious via the fact that they think rhyming someone's name with "Turban" is an insult.
> 
> Nice subtle way to broadcast "hello, I am a bigot!" to the world. 

This is in reference to the conservobloggers that have christened Dick Durbin as "Turban Durbin" because he dared to acknowledge that torture is bad. For example, [Bill Hobbs][2], and [this guy][3].

This is what Bill has to say in defense of his apparent bigotry:

> The use of the word was a simple device to smoke out Durbin apologists from the Left who - like you - are quicker to condemn a silly joke than to condemn the very real and very damaging slander that Durbin uttered.
> 
> Unlike Durbin's words, mine won't be rebroadcast incessantly on al-Jazeera to the delight and encouragement of our enemy in this global military and ideological struggle against - yes - ISLAMIST wacko fundamentalism, jihad and terrorism.
> 
> But if "Turban Durbin" so offends you, I'll not use it anymore to refer to him. I'll just call him al-Durbin from now on. 

There you have it, folks. It was just a silly joke, and a ploy to trap gullible liberals. Curse his fiendish wit! But, if you find it offensive that he equates wearing a Turban with "islamist wacko fundamentalist jihadist terrorists", he's more than willing to use the Arabic word for "the", instead. Great work, Bill; you're really building bridges of compassion and understanding.

 [1]: http://www.news2wkrn.com/nit/archives/2005/06/you_can_be_my_c.html
 [2]: http://billhobbs.com/hobbsonline/006541.html
 [3]: http://capnconservativerules.blogspot.com/2005/06/im-sorry-if-youre-offended-by.html