---
post_id: 1010
title: growler
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://chris.quietlife.net/?p=1010
permalink: /2005/12/21/growler/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 236779380
categories:
  - health
  - misc
tags:
  - health
  - misc
---
Here's a [interesting post][1] on the etymology of the term "growler" -- as in the half-gallon jug you can take home beer in:

> Brander Matthews wrote about it in Harper’s Magazine in July 1893: “In New York a can brought in filled with beer at a bar-room is called a growler, and the act of sending this can from the private house to the public-house and back is called working the growler”.
> 
> It was also called rushing the growler, since perhaps these children were often in a hurry. Teenagers could make good money and get a free lunch if they would show up at the factories and pick up the workers’ beer pails to get them filled at the taverns. They would sometime use a long pole in order to carry a quantity of pails to refill on one trip. Another possible explanation for using the term ‘rushing’ the growler. 

I don't know how true it is, but it makes a lot of sense. For a long time (embarassingly long), I lamented that there was no easy way to get beer to take home if you lived downtown without driving somewhere. (God forbid I get in my car and drive 12 blocks to the Exxon.) Well, my salvation and my doom have both been discovered in the bottom a growler of Pilsner from [Big River][2]. Yes, after many years, a lightbulb finally flickered on above my head, and it occurred to me that if I want beer, maybe the *giant brewery* 100 yards from my apartment might be the place to get it.

Yes, Big River, like any other microbrew, sells take-home growlers. $7.50 for 64oz of beer. Is it a bad sign when you start measuring your beer consumption in gallons? Debilitating alcoholism, here I come!!

 [1]: http://www.maltedbarley.org/ontap/index.php?p=156
 [2]: http://nashville.citysearch.com/profile/9317154/nashville_tn/big_river_grille_brewing_works.html