---
post_id: 1321
title: wow
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://chris.quietlife.net/2006/05/16/wow-3/
permalink: /2006/05/16/wow-3/
ljID:
  - 490
dsq_thread_id:
  - 236780370
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - capital-punishment
  - death-penalty
  - jamey-tucker
  - politics
  - torture
---
Is [this guy][1] for real? I don't even know where to start. Screw it; presented without comment:

> So what would people think if the United States substituted capital punishment for corporal punishment? Instead of strapping convicted killers to an electric chair or injecting them with a chemical to stop their heart, what if judges imposed punishment such as what they do in Singapore?
> 
> Remember about 10 years or so ago when an American kid was caught spray painting cars in Singapore? He was punished by a spanking with a rod. It caused quite an uproar here that this kid would be caned as punishment.
> 
> If we're using punishment as a deterrent, I propose that a public spanking would be a greater deterrent than the death penalty. Let's say someone is found guilty of rape or murder or attempted murder. Let's then say a judge sentences them to corporal punishment. 15 lashes with a cane or a rod, in a publicly released ceremony. Anyone want to tell me this might not be a deterrent to creeps who are thinking of commiting a crime?
> 
> Let's try it out in Tennessee. Let's see what effect this might have on crime.
> 
> Of course this would never happen in America. Civil liberties groups would protest louder than they do over the death penalty. Cruel and unusual punishment they'll say.
> 
> But you know what? I haven't heard of another American teenage boy spray painting any cars in Singapore again. 

Wow.. just uh.. wow.

 [1]: http://www.news2wkrn.com/religion/2006/05/would_anyone_find_something_wr.html