---
post_id: 1820
title: websites
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://chris.quietlife.net/2008/05/13/websites/
permalink: /2008/05/13/websites/
ljID:
  - 970
dsq_thread_id:
  - 236782371
categories:
  - misc
tags:
  - capture
  - city
  - music
  - nashvillest
  - photography
  - tennessean
---
A few interesting things:

  * I signed up for [Capture Music City][1]. It's some thing the Tennessean appears to have built for submitting photos, which will be selected based on popular rankings and published in a book. I am generally very wary of these "SUBMIT YOUR PHOTOS AND BE *PUBLISHED*!!!" offers, because it sounds cool, until you do a cursory value analysis. It's not that I anticipate making large amounts of money (or any at all, in fact) from my pictures -- it's my hobby after all. But that doesn't mean I want to be complicit in giving someone something for free -- which is essentially what a lot of these offers are. 
    They put out the call for free submissions in a "contest" and voila, they have a bunch of photographers sending them pictures to use, for free, in a book they can sell. Everyone wins. The only upside to you as a photographer is the publicity and name recognition -- which, for a majority of these contests -- is virtually nil. So, everyone wins except you. You just gave away your crap for free. The Tennessean, though, for better or worse is a ginormous publication, so they'll at least have more exposure. So what the hell.
    
    So, I uploaded a bunch of crap. Go [vote for all my crap][2]. I tried to upload a selection of my pictures that were related to Nashville in some way (which is tricky if they are portraits or something). Go check it out and upload any pictures you might have. Oh, and also, when you participate in these contests, you need to be careful to read the fine print on the terms to make sure you're not giving away ownership to your work or anything. In this case, their terms of service specify:
    
    > You also hereby grant to us a royalty-free, non-exclusive, worldwide right to copy, edit, adapt, distribute, perform, display, and/or use, the Materials, including any derivative works created from the Materials, in whole or in part, for use in the Capture Music City book, Capture Music City DVD, and promotion related to the Capture Music City project. In addition, you grant to us the royalty-free, non-exclusive, worldwide right to use your name, likeness, and biographical information in connection with the use of the Materials. 
    
    "Non-exclusive" is the important part -- it means they are reserving the right to do whatever they want with your picture, but they're not trying to own it. Very important. </li> 
    
      * [nashvillest.com][3] has launched -- go check it out.</ul>

 [1]: http://capturemusiccity.com/
 [2]: http://capturemusiccity.com/people/cwage
 [3]: http://www.nashvillest.com/