---
post_id: 3588
title: 'LET&#8217;S ARGUE ABOUT GUN CONTROL'
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://chris.quietlife.net/?p=3588
permalink: /2012/12/15/lets-argue-about-gun-control/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
dsq_thread_id:
  - 976426761
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - control
  - gun
  - politics
---
Just kidding, I don't want to argue. Gun control is not a passionate issue for me, and I've written just about all I have to say about [gun control here][1]. (Note that I focus on inner-city violence, which is really the largest and most tragic location of firearm violence in this country, even if it's not as headline-grabbing as school massacres.)

Mostly I just want to recommend that everyone read [this article][2]. Especially this part:

> The general decline in gun-related violence and the inability even of mental health professionals to identify future mass killers should be the essential starting points of any serious policy discussion generated by the absolutely horrific slaughter at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. We should also add a third starting point: Few good policies come from rapid responses to deeply felt injuries. Many of the same people who are now calling for immediate action with regard to gun control recognize that The Patriot Act, rushed through Congress in the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, was a terrible piece of legislation that ultimately did nothing to protect Americans even as it vastly expanded the state's ability to surveil law-abiding citizens. There's no reason to think that federal, state, or local gun control laws promulgated now would result in anything different.
> 
> If hard cases make bad laws, it's even more true that rare crimes make terrible public policy. In a piece for Quartz, journalist Lenore Skenazy recalls that the deadliest school massacre in U.S. history took place in Michigan in 1927, when a disgruntled school-board official blew up 38 people, including himself. She writes that the real difference between now and then is the immediacy of the media, which shrinks the distance between victims and the rest of us. Even as that allows us to have more empathy for the grieving, it creates the conditions for an overreaction that will ultimately be little more than symbolic.

 [1]: http://chris.quietlife.net/2003/11/14/society-with-guns/
 [2]: http://reason.com/archives/2012/12/15/4-archetypally-awful-reactions-to-sandy/singlepage