---
post_id: 4247
title: a really good play about housing
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://quietlife.net/?p=4247
permalink: /2017/02/27/a-really-good-play-about-housing
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - nashville affordable housing
---

**The scene:** *The Metro Nashville Commission to investigate forming a committee to plan to address the mysterious problem of expensive housing plaguing the growing city.*

**Expert:** We're gathered here today to address the [problem of expensive housing][1] that we just noticed again. Does anyone have any thoughts?

**Expert #2:** It's really bad. Growth is bad.

**Expert #3:** Yeah, terrible, really bad -- especially for poor people.

**Voice from the back of the room:** It's because zoning/building regulations restrict supply, home purchase subsidies drive up demand, and [property tax disincentivizes long-term ownership for low/middle-income families][2], driving up rent and effectively transferring wealth to the wealthy.

**Expert:** It's a mystery, for sure.. it's really bad -- does anyone have any ideas?

**Voice from the back of the room:** uh, I just said it's bec--

**Expert #2:** We need more affordable housing

**Expert #3:** Yes!! Affordable housing, that's good -- if people can afford housing, it's cheaper.

**Expert:** Okay, but *how*?? *strokes forehead*

**Voice from the back of the room:** Hello? Is this thing on? encourage building and eliminate property ta--

**Expert #2:** This problem is really bad

**Expert #3:** Developers are evil.

**Expert #2:** YES! ugh, developers.

**Expert #3:** What if we made it illegal for housing to be unaffordable..

**Voice from the back of the room:** da fu--

**Expert:** hm, good point, good idea.. what if we made some regulations forcing developers to make housing affordable?

**Expert #3:** ooh, i like that, then the housing will be affordable, and we will punish developers

**Voice from the back of the room:** why not just let them build mo--

**Expert #2:** Perhaps a rule that developers have to sell housing slightly cheaper for the upper middle class for a miniscule amount of time before things go back to normal.

**Expert:** Perfect! Then we can say we've Done Something!

**Expert #3:** as long as they don't build *too* much, though -- otherwise the evil developers will profit

**Expert #2:** yes, definitely don't want too much building

**Expert:** yes, growth is bad..

***Sound of a head banging on wall in the back of the room***

**Expert:** say .. can we claim this solves homelessness too?




[1]: http://www.tennessean.com/story/opinion/columnists/david-plazas/2017/02/26/dilemma-renters-nashville/98267702/
[2]: https://quietlife.net/2015/03/06/gentrification-and-the-economics-of-plunder/
