---
post_id: 4254
title: ice-storm
author: cwage
layout: post
guid: http://quietlife.net/?p=4254
permalink: /2026/02/04/ice-storm
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  -
---


### Many things can be true at the same time:

- Shit (ice storms) happens. Bad things happen. The government cannot protect you from them all. Prepare accordingly. (I didn't, ice storms of this magnitude are rare. This is not a prepper screed.)
- NES was woefully unprepared for the scale of this storm.
- There is not a world where it would make sense for NES to be "fully" prepared for the scale of such a storm. Someone has to pay for it, after all. A standing army of linemen at the ready to respond to a once-every-30-years storm would be expensive!
- NES cut back on things (vegetation management, for some reason, of all things) that likely made things worse.
- Communication was abysmal.
- Communication was abysmal because they had nothing substantive to communicate beyond "we're working on it".
- They had nothing substantive because the data was bad/slow/out-of-date.
- Having accurate up-to-date data during an ever-changing situation is not merely a technical problem. (trees were continuing to fall on power lines for the duration of recovery efforts)

### Questions

- Should the mayor resign? Would it make a difference? Did any of the systemic problems with NES that may exist start with him? (No.) Will they end with him? (Probably not.)
- Should the NES president and board resign? Maybe. The people want blood, but fresh faces are unlikely to change anything unless new appointees have some sort of substantively different skillset (ideally, something at all to do with powergrid management and maintenance, communication, etc, vs being obviously political appointments.)
- Why didn't NES cut down my bradford pear trees? (the most important question people are overlooking, imo)

### Anecdotes

- I do find the vegetation management budget cuts suspect and pretty frustrating. (story about the bradford pears) -- probably worth mentioning this https://www.newschannel5.com/news/newschannel-5-investigates/nes-audit-warned-of-tree-trimming-problems-months-before-ice-storm-outages
### Snark

- It was interesting watching/reading the responses from various citizens to this unfold. A lot of indignant rage
